=encoding utf8

=begin man

.if n .ad

=end man

=head1 Name

oneko — cute cats chasing around your mouse cursor

=head1 Synopsis

B<oneko> [B<global options>] [B<-pet> I<pet_name> [B<pet options>] ... ] ...

=head1 Description

I<oneko> changes your mouse cursor into a mouse and creates little cute cats
which starts chasing your mouse cursor or another focus.
If the cat catches up with the focus,
it starts sleeping.
Each <-pet> flag creates a cat.

=head2 Options

=over

=item B<-help>

Prints help message on usage.

=item B<-neko>,  B<-tora>,  B<-dog>, B<-bsd>, B<-bsd_daemon>, B<-sakura>, B<-tomoyo>

Legacy options compatible with the original oneko.
A pet is selected without creating a new window.

=item B<-time> I<interval>

Sets interval timer which determine intervals for cat animation.
Default value is 125000 and unit is micro-second.  Smaller value makes cat
run faster.

=item B<-sleeptime> I<time>",
Set a delay between the first movement of the focus and the wakeup event.

=item B<-speed> I<distance>

Specify the distance where the cat jumps at one move in dot resolution.
The default is 16.

=item B<-idle> I<speed>

Specify the speed threshold to wake cat up when mouse is running away.

=item B<-name> I<name>

Specify the window name of the cat.

=item B<-towindow>

When I<oneko> starts with this option, you must select a window by the cursor.
Then cat appears and starts chasing the window instead of a mouse.  You can
select another running I<oneko> as the target window.  If root window is
selected, cat chases mouse as usually.  When the target window is not in sight
and not closed, cat chases mouse as usually.  If the target window is closed,
this program exits.

=item B<-toname> I<name>

Specify the window name of the target to make cat chase it instead of a mouse.
You can specify another running I<oneko> as the target window.  When the target
window is not in sight and not closed, cat chases mouse as usually.  If the
target window is closed, this program exits.

=item B<-tofocus>

Makes cat run to and on top of focus window.  When focus window is not in sight,
cat chases mouse as usually.

=item B<-position> I<geometry>

Specify X and Y offsets in pixels to adjust the position of cat relative to a
mouse pointer.

=item B<-rv>

Reverse background color and foreground color.

=item B<-noshape>

Don't use SHAPE extension.

=item B<-fg> I<color>

Foreground color.

=item B<-bg> I<color>

Background color.

=back

=head2 Resources

The application name is "neko" (or "tora") and the class name is "Oneko".

=over

=item B<tora>

Set C<True> if you want "tora-neko".

=item B<time>

Sets interval timer in micro-second.

=item B<speed>

Sets distance to jump in pixels.

=item B<idle>

Sets speed threshold to wake cat up when mouse is running away.

=item B<noshape>

Set C<True> if you don't want to use SHAPE extension.

=item B<reverse>

Set C<True> if you want to switch foreground and background color.

=item B<foreground>

Foreground color.

=item B<background>

Background color.

=back

=head2 Pets

The following arguments may be passed to the B<-pet> option.

=over

=item I<neko>

Select the default cat.

=item I<tora>

Selects a "tora-neko".  "Tora-neko" means cat with tiger-like stripe.
I don't know how to say it in English.

=item I<dog>

Selects a dog instead of a cat.

=item I<bsd>, I<bsd_daemon>

Selects a 4.3BSD daemon instead of a cat.

=item I<sakura>

Selects Sakura Kinomoto instead of a cat.

=item I<tomoyo>

Selects Tomoyo Daidouji instead of a cat.

=back

=head1 Notes

While this program uses C<XGetDefault>, be sure to use "neko.resource" form. If
you run this program as "tora", by hard or soft link, the B<-tora> option is
enabled by default.

BSD Daemon Copyright 1988 by Marshall Kirk McKusick. All Rights Reserved.

Sakura Kinomoto and Tomoyo Daidouji are characters in a comic strip
"CARDCAPTOR SAKURA" (CLAMP, Kodansha), with the sanction indicated in
L<CLAMP SCHOOL WEB CAMPUS|http://www.clamp.f-2.co.jp/>.

This fork is backwards compatible with the original oneko and oneko-sakura.

=head1 Authors

Original I<xneko> was written by Masayuki Koba and modified to I<oneko>
by Tatsuya Kato, and modified furthermore by John Lerchey, Eric Anderson,
Toshihiro Kanda and L<Kiichiroh Mukose|mailto:mukose@hbar.mp.es.osaka-u.ac.jp>.

=head1 Maintainer

oneko-sakura: -L<Ivan Trubach|mailto:mr.trubach@icloud.com>
oneko-saku is maintained at L<https://github.com/hiige/oneko-saku>
